- [Instructor] Let's take a look at the JSON data types now.
The simple types first, and then we will see
how a JSON structure looks like.
So whenever you have a JSON representation
on a document, it could have one
of the following data types.
Either a string, which is a text value.
A number, numerical values which fractional numbers.
Boolean, either true or false.
And it could also have null values.
Let's take a look at the JSON structures now.
So with those data types that we saw in the previous slide,
how do you write a JSON?
What does a JSON structure look like?
So when you have a JSON document in front of you,
how are you supposed to interpret it?
Let's go ahead.
The JSON representations have the following structures.
It could either be a key-value pair,
or it could be an object or an array.
Let's look at each one of them in a little detail.
I have a Notepad++ document open in front of me,
and the first one, which is a key value page structure,
looks like this.
Every JSON object is always surrounded
by a curly pair of braces.
And when I say key value pair,
now I'm going to write name,
which is of course, the key.
Then it's followed by a colon,
and then then value is my name, which is again in quotes.
So the value is of the string type
and the key is called name.
That's it.
This is the simplest way of writing the JSON structure.
And then you have JSON object.
So what the means is, let me copy this.
Let me go on the next line.
And just space that again.
And when I say it is a JSON object,
it means I have multiple key-value pairs,
a collection of key-value pairs, specifying
a particular entity.
So let's say I have already given my name.
Of course I've gone to the next line
with the help of a comma sign.
And then I will say profession.
And I say developer.
Okay?
Next, I could say location, where I stay.
And then I could say Sweden.
Then I can, again, give a comma sign.
And let's say I could have a key called is_student,
and then to this I can say false.
So what I'm trying to do is have multiple values
which specify a particular object.
Again, I can have number of years of experience.
And that may be 11.
So what I try to do is,
when I give the values for the keys
in this object,
It could either of be of string,
then I give a Boolean value,
and I could also give a numerical value.
In addition to this, you can also define
a null value for any of your keys.
Each key-value pair separated by comma sign,
and each key and value separated by a colon sign.
The next one is JSON array.
So how does that look like?
Any array we know is a collection of elements.
Generally of the same type in some
of the programming languages,
it could be different in JavaScript,
it could be different in JSON.
So an array will be represented like that,
with a pair of square brackets.
And let's say I have an array of fruits.
So I can say apple.
Then, mango.
So on and so forth.
Okay?
Now, I could actually have a complete JSON object
which has not only got these simple kind of values,
but, the values could also be arrays.
So let's see how to write that.
Let's take this entire JSON object.
Copy, and paste it on line number 16.
And what I'm going to do here is I'm going to say comma.
So I'm adding a new key-value pair.
And the key is, let's say courses.
And that is now going to point to an array.
Because courses cannot be defined as a single value
it has to be collection of values and that's why
the value given to this key of courses now
is a JSON array.
Okay?
And then I can say Java
J-E-E,
AngularJS,
so on and so forth, right?
So the value now is an JSON array.
Additionally you could have a little complicated structure.
Let's say I want to specify the address
for this particular member.
Now the address if definitely composed of multiple fields.
It has street, building name, city, country,
zip code, et cetera.
So I do not want to specify all of the address information
as a simple string value,
but I want that each of the components
to be specified separately.
So in that case, I can put a colon.
And the value of this key is another JSON object.
This is absolutely okay.
This is how things work, even in the projects.
These are the kind of structures that you will
come across when it comes to JSON
in your applications.
So now this address could have,
let's say city
I'll say Stockholm,
and then I can have a comma there again.
And put another key, which is country.
To which I can say Sweden, et cetera.
So on forth and so forth, you can specify
all the parameters for the address object.
So this means that whenever you have a JSON object,
it should have a key-value pair,
but values can be of different types.
It could point to an array,
it could also point to another JSON object.
So you will have this nested level of objects,
every single time you have a JSON representation
or a JSON document.
Okay, now whenever you write a JSON,
it should of course look like this.
We have every key-value pair on a separate line.
If let's say you want to really format it,
or you wanted to understand whether the JSON
you have written is correct or not,
you have ways to validate it.
So what we'll do is, we'll copy this entire JSON,
and we will go to this website which is called jsonlint.com
Now, if I paste my JSON here, and if I click on
that Validate JSON button,
do you see what happened?
It of course tells me that it is a valid JSON,
and it is kind enough to even format that for me.
So there were these keys at the beginning
name, profession, location, student, et cetera.
And under address, since I have another JSON object,
it formatted that as well.
Okay?
So jsonlint.com is just one of the websites
where you can format and see whether your JSON
is correct or not, and there are tons of websites
like these, who can do the same job for you.
Now, let's see some of the rules that you need to remember.
Many of you who have already worked with the JavaScript
language, must definitely understand that this
structure looks very similar to a JavaScript object.
But there's a difference.
When it comes to JSON, the keys that you specify,
are always of string type.
In a JavaScript object, you can actually have a key
which does not have these codes at all.
Now, if I try to validate this JSON,
it will give me an error, and it'll say that
it is not expecting something of this type.
It is expecting a string key.
That's the difference between a JSON
and a JavaScript object.
Moreover, let's correct that.
Let's go back to the previous thing.
Let's say you have a single code.
I mentioned by mistake a single code
in one of the values that I tried to give.
Let's validate this again.
And then again it'll show me that error.
So whatever values that you're embedding
if it is a string type, it has to be a double code.
A single code is not allowed.
Let's say we also miss out this comma sign.
We correct this, and we miss out the comma sign.
And let's validate it again.
There you go, again.
So it expects that you give a comma sign.
So any of these rules, if you're not going to follow
which means this document is an invalid JSON document.
And do not forget this.
Now mostly in your industry projects,
when you're trying to work with JSON,
you have no requirement as such
when you're writing out a JSON.
But sometimes you receive a JSON document
and maybe you probably think something is wrong with it,
then you can quickly go ahead and validate
with any of these websites that you have.
Okay.
So we've seen key-value pairs,
we've seen objects,
we have seen JSON arrays,
and this JSON structure could be nested at any level
as I said.
Any kind of values which falls in the JSON value types
and any level of nesting is possible.
Now according to latest RFC 7159: every JSON value
is considered to be a valid JSON document.
What I mean is, let's go back to JSONLint.
If I erase all of this, and I just say false.
And I say validate JSON.
Do you see that it tells me that it is a valid JSON?
It's simple value, but it is a valid JSON value,
and that's exactly why it will say that
it is a valid JSON.
So this is as per the latest RFC 7159.
Of course, then you have to check
what kind of JSON API that you're using in your application.
Whether it really supports this latest
RFC modification or not.
Okay.
In the next video, we are going to debate
whether JSON is better, or the XML,
Extensible Markup Language, is a better way
of exchanging data.